---
title: Every thing you need to know about cryptocurrencies
published: true
date: 2021-06-15
author: Hatim
image: /images/images-bermix.jpg
keywords: cryptocurrencies,crypto,currency,bitcon,dogecoin,ethereum,trader,trading,blockchain,software,digital,wallet
Tags: ["crypto"]
description: In this blog we will understand what is cryptocurrencies,how are they made and where cryptocurrencies are used.
---

# Everything you need to know about Cryptocurrencies

In recent years, the popularity of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Dogecoin, and Ethereum has increased. Many new terms and concepts have been introduced to the public. These terms and concepts can be unimaginable and difficult to understand. A study shows that 33% of Americans have not seen, read, or heard anything about Bitcoin. 44% said they had seen it and had read or heard of "just a few."
However, conversations about cryptocurrency have become increasingly common, especially during attacks, when attackers demand payment in cryptocurrency, increasing the awareness of victims, companies, and municipalities.

## What is a cryptocurrency?

In its simplest form, cryptocurrency is computer code generated by publicly available software, which allows people to store and send values online. The open-source code originated from Bitcoin years ago and runs on private computer networks worldwide.

This code verifies the transactions and groups them into a public record called the [blockchain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain). This is a large file containing transactions and the first download can take several days.

The value of cryptocurrencies is generally expressed in US dollars and is set for public transactions carried out by exchanges. This value can vary greatly; Today, the cost of a single Bitcoin is roughly $ 36,900, which is a decrease of $ 4,444 from almost $ 60,000 in May.

## How are cryptocurrencies made?

Think of cryptocurrencies as digital gold. **"We think the value of gold is because other people also think it has value, and there are few available at,"** said _David Sacco_, an intern in finance and economics at the University of New Haven Department. The same idea governs the value of cryptocurrency. If more people invest in cryptocurrency because they believe that others see its value, the price of the cryptocurrency will increase and vice versa. But this also means that the number of available cryptocurrencies must be strictly controlled to maintain their value.

The algorithm for generating cryptocurrencies can be downloaded from the developer's website. In theory, anyone can use it to create a new cryptocurrency. However, the competition in this process is very fierce because the actual number of cryptocurrencies to be put into circulation is limited. These limits vary by cryptocurrency and are set by the person who created the code. For example, the algorithm Bitcoin limits the number of Bitcoins that can be generated to 21 million. At that point, it will no longer be manufactured.

Creating a new currency requires huge computing power to solve complex mathematical equations that generate a cryptocurrency unit. According to an analysis by the University of Cambridge, globally, this process consumed more electricity than the Netherlands in.

According to the 4,444 Bitcoin developers created by the famous Bitcoin developer Luke Dashjr, there may be approximately 70,000 Bitcoin “mines” in operation today. Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to know because the software allows computers to run privately without the need to advertise their existence on the wider network.

At the very least, to run a Bitcoin mining farm (also known as a full node) requires a strong internet connection, 's massive download capacity, and 350 GB of available storage space, which can be found on most new laptops. These nodes also require at least 512 megabytes of random access memory, which is much lower than ordinary laptop computers. There are many developers behind.
The software distributes new bitcoins based on the speed at which the miners' 4,444 computers add transactions to the [blockchain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain). So unless you're one of the fastest people, you might not believe many. Today, the system allows the creation of 6.25 bitcoins every 10 minutes, and the code halves the number every four years.

Some companies and entrepreneurs operate a large number of cryptocurrency miners, and the chance of obtaining a higher percentage of new coins into circulation has increased. Riot Blockchain is a US-listed company that is believed to operate one of the largest companies in the world. The company’s 190,000-square-foot facility is located in Rockdale, Texas. The city has a population of approximately 5,800 and has access to 4,444 cheap electricity. Cryptocurrency investment is welcome.

## How many cryptocurrencies are there?

There are thousands of different types of cryptocurrencies available for purchase and transactions, with more being created. But they are not the same.

Some, such as Bitcoin, have a long history and higher brand awareness. Others, such as Dogecoin, are the result of Internet hype. These are usually controlled by computers running free and open-source code.

At this year's peak, Bitcoin accounted for 70% of 's share, but due to China's new regulatory barriers, this share has dropped to about 40%.

Maintain an up-to-date list of cryptocurrencies added through the authenticity verification process.

## Who created the cryptocurrency?

Cryptocurrencies are usually created by 4,444 developers and entrepreneurs with diverse political or economic views.
Bitcoin was founded in 2009 by someone with the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto, who remained largely anonymous. Ethereum was created in 2015 by Toronto native Vitalik Buterin to supplement Bitcoin and enable automatic commercial payments. Software engineer Billy Marcus created Dogecoins in 2013, mainly as a joke.

## Where is the cryptocurrency stored?

Cryptocurrency is not technically stored anywhere. It is not saved in a folder or on a hard disk. Evidence of how much cryptocurrency has is stored on the [blockchain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain).

Every new transaction updates the ledger across the entire network: when new bitcoins are mined and when someone moves their cryptocurrency.

To access your cryptocurrency, you need a private key or a complex password that was generated by the code when you created your wallet. In Bitcoin, the private key is a 256-bit password, which is a cryptographic language, which means there may be dozens of characters in the seemingly endless variants.

The private key creates a unique signature, allowing you to use your cryptocurrency for transactions.
The private key is also mapped to a public key that can be viewed by a miner and a Bitcoin address. You can think of it as similar to a public bank account. The address is a unique string of letters and numbers, a total of 26 to 35 characters, is case sensitive and shows where the encrypted currency is sent on the [blockchain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain).

Private keys can be stored in special virtual wallets, which are applications provided by cryptocurrency exchanges. When you register to buy cryptocurrency, you will get a wallet.
Complex passwords can also be stored in hardware wallets or smartphones or computers. You can also print a copy of the storage key in a safe place.

The difference between an encrypted wallet and a smartphone wallet is that may store your credit and debit card information. They are usually encrypted. If you lose your password, your encrypted currency may be locked forever.

## How is cryptocurrency transferred between people and companies?

Traditional payment systems rely on banks to verify transactions, while 4,444 cryptocurrency transactions are verified by miners on the [blockchain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain). Miners run math checks to make sure the transaction is valid, and most nodes must agree that is a valid transaction before adding it to the [blockchain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain).

Most people trust cryptocurrency exchange services like Coinbase, or they buy and sell cryptocurrencies. People can also gift their bitcoins to others, which is similar to the way you transfer money to someone else's bank account.

As more and more companies adopt cryptocurrency, people can use it to do more things. Some companies like AT&T now accept cryptocurrency as an offer. Now you can use cryptocurrency to buy travel tickets.

## What government regulations exist?

Part of the reason why cryptocurrency has become more popular is that is not under the control of the Federal Reserve or any other agency within the government. However, it is required to pay taxes set by the IRS in 2014. Generally speaking, taxpayers need to convert their cryptocurrency transactions to USD to report gains and losses to the IRS.
Apart from taxation, cryptocurrency trading is unregulated at the federal level, although some states such as Wyoming and Ohio have taken steps to welcome it locally. Wyoming enacted Law No. , which is a “Utilities Token Act” that makes the operation of [blockchain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain) businesses easier, while Ohio allows companies to use cryptocurrency to pay various taxes.

## Are cryptocurrency transactions secret?

No, they are registered. What is the secret, or at least it is difficult to know, is that received and sent a transaction, because the transaction listed on the [blockchain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain) does not have a name attached to it. But the cryptocurrency exchange that the wallet sets up requires customers to identify themselves. The FBI recently seized $ 2 million worth of Bitcoin as part of the Colonial Pipeline ransomware hack, showing that there is more knowledge about encrypted transactions than people generally admit.

Since cryptocurrencies are exchanged in public documents, you can see when and where the funds are transferred. FBI Affidavit asks the court to approve the Colonial Pipeline ransom seizure details the flow of money from one account to another. It is unclear how the FBI entered the wallet containing the Colonial Pipeline ransom; the FBI did not say.
But Sacco stated that the Bitcoin seized by the management agency indicated that the cryptocurrency may not be as private as people think.
